Writing style updates to Using Variables topic (#71194)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/user_guide/playbooks_variables.rst

.. _playbooks_variables:

***************
Using Variables 
***************

> With Ansible, you can execute the tasks and playbooks on multiple systems from a single command. These systems can have similar or different configurations. Ansible uses variables to manage the differences in system configurations - it stores your system's configuration information in a variable. For example, you can create a variable to store information about the system architecture or hostname. Instead of executing the same task or playbook on each system separately, Ansible uses variables (as placeholders) that represent the configuration information of different systems. When you execute a task or a playbook, the variables are replaced by the system's configuration information, and the task is executed on multiple systems simultaneously.

Reviewer: Can you talk about your goals for this change? There are good copyediting elements to it (focusing on the user, using active voice), but it changes the information architecture and introduces some technical inaccuracies. It drops both `variables` and `different` from the first sentence - the main concepts of the entire page. It reduces differences among systems to varying `system configurations` - variables can supply  much more than configuration data. Think of user names, passwords, package names, timestamps, and so on. By changing the paragraph structure, this change also obscures the separation of two topics - setting or creating variables and using variables.

Creating valid variable names
=============================

Not all strings are valid Ansible variable names. Use the guidelines provided in this section to create a valid variable name.

> A valid variable name can:

Reviewer: Using a single verb to apply to multiple bullet points makes translation harder.

 * Include letters, numbers, and underscores only.
 * Begin with an underscore. In many programming languages, variables that begin with an underscore are private. This is not true in Ansible. Variables that begin with an underscore are treated exactly the same as any other variable. Do not rely on this convention for privacy or security.

> A valid variable name cannot:

Reviewer: Same as above.

.. _Python keywords: https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#keywords

> Creating simple variables

Reviewer: The existing structure of the document repeats a pattern for each type of variable - first a general heading for the variable type, then sub-headings for `Defining` it and `Referencing` it. If we change the general heading to use `Creating`, it undermines the pattern (because creating and defining are the same thing, and referencing is not a sub-set of creating . . . ). If we want a gerund here, we could use `Using` instead of `Creating`. However, I think the standard is to avoid gerunds in non-procedural topics. (Of course, that's a standard we don't always follow in the Ansible docs).

      vars:
           app_path: "{{ base_path }}/22"

.. _list_variables:

> Creating list variables

Reviewer: Oops, there should have been a `List variables` heading there. Thanks for catching that! Same comment on the verb as above.

The value of this expression would be "northeast".

.. _dictionary_variables:

> Creating dictionary variables

Reviewer: Same as above.

Registering variables
=====================

> Registered variables may be simple variables, list variables, dictionary variables, or complex nested data structures. The documentation for each module includes a ``RETURN`` section describing the return values for that module. To see the values for a particular task, run your playbook with ``-v``.

Reviewer: Can you talk about your goals for this change? I'd keep the "you can do X" and the example at the top of the section. Knowing what registered variables are for / can do provides motivation to read the rest of the content.

    {{ ansible_facts["eth0"]["ipv4"]["address"] }}

> The following example shows how to reference an IP address from your facts by using the dot notation::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reference an IP address from your facts by using the dot notation::
```

Transforming variables with Jinja2 filters
==========================================

> Jinja2 filters let you transform the value of a variable within a template expression. For example, the ``capitalize`` filter capitalizes any value passed to it; the ``to_yaml`` and ``to_json`` filters change the format of your variable values. Jinja2 includes many `built-in filters <http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/templates/#builtin-filters>`_ and Ansible supplies many more filters. To know of more examples of filters, see :ref:`playbooks_filters`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jinja2 filters let you transform the value of a variable within a template expression. For example, the ``capitalize`` filter capitalizes any value passed to it; the ``to_yaml`` and ``to_json`` filters change the format of your variable values. Jinja2 includes many `built-in filters <http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/templates/#builtin-filters>`_ and Ansible supplies many more filters. To find more examples of filters, see :ref:`playbooks_filters`.
```

.. _setting_variables:

> Where do I define the variables?

Reviewer: Does the IBM Style Guide recommend using questions in headings? I thought that was, um, frowned upon.

================================

> You can define variables in a variety of places, such as in an inventory, in playbooks, in reusable files, in roles, and at the command line. Ansible loads every possible variable it finds, then chooses the variable to apply based on :ref:`variable precedence rules <ansible_variable_precedence>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define variables in a variety of places, such as in inventory, in playbooks, in reusable files, in roles, and at the command line. Ansible loads every possible variable it finds, then chooses the variable to apply based on :ref:`variable precedence rules <ansible_variable_precedence>`.
```

.. _variables_in_inventory:

> Defining variables in an inventory

Reviewer: Ansible inventory can be a file, a directory full of files, or a database populated from a script or inventory plugin, so we don't talk about "an inventory," just "inventory."

      - name: this is just a placeholder
        command: /bin/echo foo

> The contents of each variables file is a simple YAML dictionary, as shown in the following example::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of each variables file is a simple YAML dictionary. For example::
```

    ---
    # in the above example, this would be vars/external_vars.yml
    somevar: somevalue
    password: magic

.. note::

>    You can keep per-host and per-group variables in similar files. To know how to organize your variables, see :ref:`splitting_out_vars`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can keep per-host and per-group variables in similar files. To learn about organizing your variables, see :ref:`splitting_out_vars`.
```

Variable precedence: Where should I put a variable?
===================================================

> You can define multiple variables with the same name in many different places. When you do this, Ansible loads every possible variable it finds, and then chooses the variable to apply based on the variable precedence. In other words, the different variables will override each other based on how they are arranged. Therefore, you can control Ansible behavior simply by arranging the order of variables.

Reviewer: The original text was unclear, and the change is misleading. The phrase "in a certain order" in the original text meant "Ansible ranks the variable locations, and that ranked order (of locations, like in inventory, in the playbook, and so on) determines which variable will override which other variable." So users can't control this behavior "by arranging the order of variables."

> In addition to the arrangement of variables, the other things that can affect Ansible behavior are Ansible configuration, command-line options, and playbook keywords.  In general, variables take precedence, so that host-specific settings can override the more general settings. For examples and more details on the precedence of these various settings, see :ref:`general_precedence_rules`.

Reviewer: Hm, this is another place where the suggested change is drawing attention to ambiguous or unclear original text. Maybe something like this:
```suggestion
Some behavioral parameters can be set in variables and also in Ansible configuration, as command-line options, and using playbook keywords.  In general, if the same parameter is set by a variable and by another method, the variable takes precedence, so that host-specific settings can override the more general settings. For examples and more details on the precedence of these various settings, see :ref:`general_precedence_rules`.
```

  #. include params
  #. extra vars (for example, ``-e "user=my_user"``)(always win precedence)

> In general, Ansible gives higher precedence to variables that were defined more recently, more actively, and with more explicit scope. Variables in the the defaults folder inside a role are easily overridden. Anything in the vars directory of the role overrides previous versions of that variable in the namespace. Host and/or inventory variables override role defaults, but the variables do not override explicit includes such as the vars directory or an ``include_vars`` task.

Reviewer: Hm. Host vars, inventory vars, and role defaults are all variables, so saying "the variables" here is confusing. Maybe:
```suggestion
In general, Ansible gives higher precedence to variables that were defined more recently, more actively, and with more explicit scope. Variables in the the defaults folder inside a role are easily overridden. Anything in the vars directory of the role overrides previous versions of that variable in the namespace. Host and/or inventory variables override role defaults, but explicit includes such as the vars directory or an ``include_vars`` task override inventory variables.
```

> Ansible merges different variables set in the inventory so that more specific settings override more generic settings. For example, ``ansible_ssh_user`` specified as a group_var has a higher precedence than ``ansible_user`` specified as a host_var. For details about the precedence of variables set in the inventory, see :ref:`how_we_merge`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible merges different variables set in inventory so that more specific settings override more generic settings. For example, ``ansible_ssh_user`` specified as a group_var has a higher precedence than ``ansible_user`` specified as a host_var. For details about the precedence of variables set in inventory, see :ref:`how_we_merge`.
```
